Atlantic Attrition: How to Play

= Overview
The reef is luscious and full of life! A bit too full, actually... There's barely enough room for all the sea creatures to live together! Control one of the sea creature families---Clownfish, Sharks, Crabs, and Octopodes---and fight to claim enough reef to live on.

[picture of a game in progress]

The game has two stages: The placing stage, when players collaborate to build the reef, and the moving stage, when players claim tiles by moving their creatures across the reef.

= Building the Reef
On your turn, you may place a reef tile adjacent to any other reef tile. Rotate the highlighted region with the R key and place the tile with the mouse. The indicator at the bottom shows whose turn it is and how many tiles they have left to place.

[picture of a valid tile placement]

After the reef is built, each player will place a stack of their creatures on any external edge of the board. This will end the placing stage and begin the moving stage.

= Claiming Territory
On your turn you may move any number of your creatures from one stack into an empty cell. The creatures can move only in a straight line, subject to the following rules:
- When the creatures move, at least one must stay behind in the original cell.
- The cell that the creatures move to must be empty: you cannot share a cell with another type of sea creature, nor can you add your creatures to another existing stack of your creatures.
- The creatures must move in a straight line as far as possible until they are blocked by another stack(!) or the edge of the board. You cannot move a stack of creatures into the middle of the reef; there must be something to stop the creatures' motion.

[picture of the legal move destinations of a stack, demonstrating this last rule]

To move your creatures, first click on the creatures you want to move, then on one of the available destinations (highlighted in yellow). To change the number of sea creatures moved, click the arrow buttons, use the arrow keys on the keyboard, scroll the mouse wheel, or type the number. Submit your move using the green check mark button or the enter key. Remember: you cannot move all of the creatures on a cell; you need to leave at least one.

= Camera Controls
shift + scroll wheel to zoom (or use the + and - buttons on the side)
shift + click to pan

= Exiting the game
There is no escape. You will surely die (Genesis 2:6).

Are you stuck? The menu buttons in the corner are here to rescue you from eternal fire. Click the third button from the top to schedule a baptism from a local congregation.